>> Woodruff: THE LEADER OF THE
PAKISTANI TALIBAN WAS REPORTEDLY
KILLED TODAY BY A U.S. DRONE
STRIKE.
GOOD EVENING, I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
ALSO AHEAD ON THE PROGRAM, A
SWARM OF BIG-NAME POLITICIANS
INVADE VIRGINIA, AS A BITTER
RACE FOR GOVERNOR HITS THE
HOMESTRETCH.
>> FROM DAY ONE, IT WAS ALL
ABOUT HOW THE OTHER SIDE WAS
UNFIT TO GERNOV.
AND IN SOME WAYS, WHAT'S
HAPPENING, I THINK, IS THAT
VOTERS, ATEAST L SOME OF THEM,
ARE STARTING TO AGREE WITH BOTH
CAMPAIGNS.
>> Woodruff: AND IT'S FRIDAY.
MARK SHIELDS AND DAVID BROOKS
ARE HERE TO ANALYZE THE WEEK'S
NEWS.
THOSE ARE JUST SOME OF THE
STORIES WE'RE COVERING ON
TONIGHT'S "PBS NEWSHOUR."
>> Woodruff: THE UNITED STATES
DEALT THE PAKISTANI TALIBAN A
MAJOR BLOW TODAY KILLING ITS
LEADER.
AMERICAN AND PAKISTANI
INTELLIGENCE OFFICIALS REPORTED
HAKIMULLAH MEHSUD DIED IN A U.S.
DRONE STRIKE.
HE HAD JUST ARRIVED AT A
COMPOUND NEAR MIRANSHAH, IN
NORTH WAZIRISTAN, AFTER
ATTENDING A GATHERING OF TALIBAN
LEADERS.
FOR MORE, WE TURN TO DECLAN
WALSH OF "THE NEW YORK TIMES."
HE'S IN LONDON TONIGHT.
DECLAN WALSH, WELCOME.
FIRST OF ALL, IS IT DEFINITELY
CONFIRMED THAT MEHSUD IS DEAD?
>> WELL, THERE HAVE BEEN SEVERAL
REPORTS IN THE PAST, OF COURSE,
THAT HE DIE WHICH HAD TURNED OUT
TO BE FALSE BUT ON THIS OCCASION
ALL OF THE REPORTS-- WHETHER
THEY BE PAKISTANI, TALIBAN, OR
AMERICAN-- ARE SUGGESTING THAT
INDEED MR. MEHSUD IS DEAD.
IS >> Woodruff: SO TELL US WHO
HE WAS AND WHAT WAS HIS ROLE IN
THE TALIBAN?
>> WELL, PAKISTANI -- HAKIMULLAH
MEHSUD TOOK OVER AS THE LEADER
OF THE TALIBAN IN 2009 AFTER HIS
PREDECESSOR, A MAN CALLED BIT
TUUL LA MEHSUD WAS KILLE KILLEDN
AMERICAN DRONE STRIKE.
AND HE WAS A YOUNG -- A VERY
CHARISMATIC AND IN SOME WAYS
FLAMBOYANT LEADER BUT HE ALSO
HAD A VERY RUTHLESS STREAK.
UNDER HIM, THE PAKISTANI TALIBAN
CARRIED OUT ATTACKS ACROSS
PAKISTANI CITIES AND, INDEED,
HAD LAUNCHED ONE ATTACK IN THE
UNITED STATES, THE ATTEMPTED
SUICIDE BOMBING IN TIMES SQUARE
OF MAY, 2010, WAS CARRIED OUT BY
A MAN WHO SAID THAT HE'D BEEN
TRAINED BY THE PAKISTANI TALIBAN
AND, INDEED, WHO SAID HE WAS
MOTIVATED BY THE DRONE STRIKE
CAMPAIGN IN THE TRIBAL BETS TO
CARRY OUT THAT ATTACK.
A DRONE STRIKE CAMPAIGN THAT HAS
NOW CLAIMED ONE OF ITS BIGGEST
PRIZES, REALLY, IN THE DEATH OF
MR. MEHSUD.
>> Woodruff: HOW BIG A LOSS IS
THIS FOR THE TALIBAN?
>> DIFFICULT TO SAY AT THIS
STAGE.
AFTER HIS PREDECESSOR WAS KILLED
IN 2009 IT DIDN'T TAKE VERY LONG
FOR THE PAKISTANI TALIBAN TO
BOUNCE BACK AND GO ON TO A WHOLE
SERIES OF OTHER BOMBINGS.
ON THE OTHER HAND, THE PAKISTANI
GOVERNMENT IN RECENT WEEKS HAS
BEEN TALKING ABOUT ENGAGING THE
TALIBAN IN PEACE TALKS AND THEY
ARE RELATIVELY WEAK COMPARED TO
SOME PREVIOUS YEARS.
SO THERE IS A SENSE THAT THIS
COULD PROVIDE THE MOMENTUM FOR
TALKS WITH THE TALIBAN BETWEEN
THE PAKISTANI GOVERNMENT AND THE
PAL BAN WHEN THEY HERE IN A
POSITION OF WEAKNESS BUT THE
TALIBAN THEMSELVES HAVE TOLD OUR
REPORTERS IN THE TRIBAL BELT
THAT THEY'RE FURIOUS AT THIS,
THAT THEY BLAME THE PAKISTANI
GOVERNMENT AND THEY'RE ALREADY
VOWING TO TAKE REVENGE IN AN
UNSPECIFIED WAY, BUT MOST LIKELY
INVOLVING A BOMBING CAMPAIGN IN
PAKISTAN OVER THE COMING WEEKS.
>> Woodruff: I WANT TO ASK YOU
ABOUT THAT, BUT I ALSO WANT TO
ASK YOU ABOUT THOSE PEACE TALKS
BECAUSE WE KNOW THIS COMES SOON
AFTER THE PAKISTANI PRIME
MINISTER WAS IN THE UNITED
STATES.
HE WAS CALLING FOR A STOP -- AN
END TO THESE DRONE STRIKES.
SO HOW DOES THIS -- HOW DO YOU
SEE THE TIMING OF THIS?
>> WELL, FOR THE C.I.A. THIS
COMES AT A PARTICULARLY STRIKING
MOMENT.
ONLY LAST WEEK, AS YOU SAY, WE
HAD THE PAKISTANI PRIME MINISTER
MR. SHARIF, IN WASHINGTON
MEETING PRESIDENT OBAMA.
ONE OF THE ISSUES THEY DISCUSSED
WAS DRONES.
THE PAKISTANI GOVERNMENT HAS
VERY VOCALLY OPPOSED THE DRONE
CAMPAIGN EVEN THOUGH THERE ARE
MANY INDICATIONS THAT IN PRIVATE
THEY HAVE APPROVED AT LEAST SOME
OF THESE STRIKES.
THERE'S ALSO BEEN A LOT OF
ATTENTION RECENTLY FROM HUMAN
RIGHTS GROUPS ABOUT CIVILIAN
CASUALTIES.
THE U.S. GOVERNMENT CLAIMS THAT
THE DRONE CAMPAIGN IS EXTREMELY
ACCURATE, HAS KILLED VERY FEW
PEOPLE, BUT AMNESTY
INTERNATIONAL BROUGHT OUT A
REPORT LAST WEEK WHICH SUGGESTED
THAT IN ONE INSTANCE A
67-YEAR-OLD GRANDMOTHER WAS
KILLED.
IN ANOTHER, 18 LABORERS WERE
ACCIDENTALLY KILLED AS THEY
WAITED TO TAKE A MEAL AT THE END
OF THE DAY.
SO IT'S A VERY CONTENTIOUS
PROGRAM BUT FOR THE C.I.A. THIS
IS CERTAINLY -- OR FOR THE
AMERICAN GOVERNMENT, RATHER,
THIS IS A WAY TO SHOW THE
CAMPAIGN CAN ALSO BE EXTREMELY
ACCURATE AND CAN TAKE OUT PEOPLE
WHO ARE A DANGER NOT ONLY TO THE
UNITED STATES BUT ALSO TO
PAKISTAN.
>> Woodruff: SO IN TERMS OF
KNOWING WHETHER THE GOVERNMENT
OF PAKISTAN WOULD HAVE AGREED WE
THIS, HAD GIVEN A GREEN LIGHT OR
OPPOSED IT WHAT IS YOUR READING
OF THAT?
>> AS WITH MANY ASPECTS OF THE
DRONE CAMPAIGN, WE SIMPLY DON'T
KNOW FOR SURE.
THERE IS A LOT TO SUGGEST THAT
PREVIOUS PAKISTANI GOVERNMENTS
CERTAINLY ENCOURAGED SOME DRONE
STRIKES AND COOPERATED WITH
OTHERS.
MR. SHARIF'S GOVERNMENT HAS
INSISTED IN PUBLIC AT LEAST THAT
IT HAS NOTHING TO DO WITH THE
DRONE CAMPAIGN AND THAT IT ONLY
OPPOSES IT BUT WHAT GOES ON
BEHIND CLOSED DOORS WITH THE
DRONES BECAUSE, OF COURSE, THIS
IS A COVERT CAMPAIGN IS REALLY
VERY DIFFICULT TO TELL.
>> Woodruff: AND VERY QUICKLY
AGAIN THERE IS SOME SENSE NOW
THAT THEY MAY RHEAL@?
THAT'S RIGHT.
THE PAKISTANI TALIBAN HAS VOWED
TO CARRY OUT REVENGE STRIKES FOR
THIS DEATH.
MR. MEHSUD'S FUNERAL IS DUE TO
TAKE PLACE TOMORROW ON SATURDAY
IN THE TRIBAL BELT BUT I THINK
ACROSS THE COUNTRY PAKISTANIS
ARE REALLY GOING TO BE VIEWING
THIS WITH SOME APPREHENSION AND
WILL BE BRACING THEMSELVES FOR
POSSIBLE RETALIATORY STRIKES.
>> Woodruff: DECLAN WALSH OF
THE "NEW YORK TIMES," WE THANK
YOU.
>> MY PLEASURE.
>> Woodruff: IN OTHER NEWS, A
GUNMAN SHOT A FEDERAL SECURITY
WORKER TO DEATH AT LOS ANGELES
INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT AND
WOUNDED AT LEAST TWO OTHER
PEOPLE.
THE ATTACK TOUCHED OFF CHAOS AS
RESCUE WORKERS RUSHED TO GET THE
VICTIMS AWAY, AND TRAVELERS TOOK
REFUGE OUTSIDE IF THEY COULD.
AIRPORT POLICE CHIEF PATRICK
GANNON SAID THERE WAS NO
WARNING.
>> AN INDIVIDUAL CAME INTO
TERMINAL THREE OF THIS AIRPORT,
PULLED A ASSAULT RIFLE OUT OF A
BAG AND BEGAN TO OPEN FIRE IN
THE TERMINAL.
HE PROCEEDED UP INTO THE
SCREENING AREA WHERE T.S.A.
SCREENERS ARE AND CONTINUED
SHOOTING AND WENT PAST THE
SCREENERS BACK INTO THE AIRPORT
ITSELF.
>> Woodruff: THE GUNMAN
ULTIMATELY SHOT IT OUT WITH
POLICE AND, APPARENTLY, WAS
WOUNDED BEFORE BEING CAPTURED.
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS IDENTIFIED
HIM AS 23-YEAR-OLD PAUL CIANCIA
OF THE LOS ANGELES AREA.
FOR A TIME, THE INCIDENT CAUSED
THE FEDERAL AVIATION
ADMINISTRATION TO GROUND ALL
DEPARTURES FROM L.A.X.
FLIGHTS BOUND THERE FROM OTHER
CITIES WERE ORDERED NOT TO TAKE
OFF.
IRAQI PRIME MINISTER NOURI AL-
MALIKI APPEALED TODAY FOR
U.S. HELP AGAINST VIOLENT
ATTACKS BY AL-QAEDA MILITANTS.
HE WOUND UP A WASHINGTON VISIT
THIS WEEK BY MEETING WITH
PRESIDENT OBAMA AT THE WHITE
HOUSE.
MALIKI IS SEEKING MILITARY AND
INTELLIGENCE ASSISTANCE.
WE'LL HAVE MORE ON THIS STORY
AFTER THE NEWS SUMMARY.
IN EGYPT, THOUSANDS TURNED OUT
TO PROTEST AFTER FRIDAY PRAYERS,
IN A SHOW OF SUPPORT FOR DEPOSED
PRESIDENT MOHAMMED MOR.SI
THEY FILLED THE STREETS AND
DENOUNCED MORSI'S UPCOMING
TRIAL, DUE TO START MONDAY.
THERE WERE EVEN CHANTS CALLING
FOR THE EXECUTION OF THE
MILITARY CHIEF WHO LED THE COUP
AGAINST MORSI.
>> (translated): THIS TRIAL IS
VOID BECAUSE THE MILITARY COUP
IS VOID AND HAS NO LEGITIMACY.
THIS SHOULD NEVER, EVER HAPPEN
NOT EVEN OVER OUR DEAD BODIES.
WE WILL NEVER ACCEPT A TRAITOR
AND HIS ACCOMPLISH TO RULE
EGYPT.
>> (translated): THIS IS NOT A
TRIAL.
UNTIL NOW, NO LAWYER HAS BEEN
ABLE TO MEET HIM AND NO
VOLUNTEER HAS BEEN ABLE TO TAKE
A COPY OF THE PAPERS OF THE
CASE.
THIS IS NOT A TRIAL, THIS IS A
FARCE.
>> Woodruff: THE MILITARY-BACKED
GOVERNMENT HAS CRACKED DOWN ON
MORSI SUPPORTERS SINCE HE WAS
OUSTED IN JULY.
SECRETARY OF STATE JOHN KERRY
ACKNOWLEDGED TODAY THAT U.S.
SURVEILLANCE OVERSEAS HAS
CROSSED THE LINE AT TIMES.
THE ADMISSION FOLLOWED
DISCLOSURES THAT THE NATIONAL
SECURITY AGENCY MONITORED
GERMAN CHANCELLOR ANGELA
MERKEL'S COMMUNICATIONS, AND
TRACKED PHONE CALLS AND E-MAILS
ACROSSUROP EE.
KERRY ADDRESSED THE ISSUE, OVER
VIDEO LINK, FOR A CONFERENCE IN
LONDON.
>> IN SOME CASES I ACKNOWLEDGE
TO YOU, AS HAS THE PRESIDENT,
SOME OF THESE ACTIONS HAVE
REACHED TOO FAR AND WE ARE GOING
TO MAKE SURE THAT THAT DOES NOT
HAPPEN IN THE FUTURE.
>> Woodruff: KERRY SAID HE AND
PRESIDENT OBAMA LEARNED OF SOME
OF THE SURVEILLANCE AFTER THE
FACT.
BUT HE ALSO SAID SOME OF THE
INFORMATION GLEANED HAS SAVED
LIVES.
ONE THIRD OF ALL THE TEXAS
CLINICS THAT PERFORM ABORTIONS
ARE NOW BARRED FROM DOING SO.
A FEDERAL APPEALS COURT LAST
NIGHT ALLOWED NEW STATE
RESTRICTIONS TO TAKE EFFECT,
PENDING FURTHER APPEALS.
THE RULES SAY CLINIC DOCTORS
MUST HAVE ADMITTING PRIVILEGES
AT NEARBY HOSPITALS, BUT MANY DO
NOT.
TEXAS IS ONE OF A NUMBER OF
STATES TO APPROVE BROAD NEW
CURBS ON ABORTIONS IN RECENT
MONTHS.
IN ECONOMIC NEWS, U.S. FACTORY
OUTPUT EXPANDED IN OCTOBER, AT
THE BEST PACE IN TWO AND HALF
YEARS.
THAT WORD CAME TODAY IN A
CLOSELY WATCHED SURVEY OF
RCHPUASING MANAGERS.
AND MAJOR AUTO MAKERS REPORTED
SOLID GAINS IN OCTOBER AS WELL.
CHRYSLER, FORD, G.M. AND NISSAN
POSTED DOUBLE-DIGIT SALES
INCREASES OVER THE PREVIOUS
MONTH.
ON WALL STREET TODAY, THE DOW
JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE GAINED
NEARLY 70 POINTS TO CLOSE AT
15,615.
THE NASDAQ ROSE TWO POINTS TO
CLOSE AT 3,922.
FOR THE WEEK, THE DOW ROSE
THREE-TENTHS OF A PERCENT.
THE NASDAQ DROPPED HALF A
PERCENT.
STILL AHEAD ON THE "NEWSHOUR":
IRAQ'S PRE MIIMNISTER VISITS THE
WHITE HOUSE SEEKING HELP TO CURB
GROWING VIOLENCE BACK HOME; THE
ONE OUT OF SEVEN AMERICANS ON
FOOD STAMPS NOW MUST GET BY WITH
LESS; THE RACE FOR VIRGINIA'S
NEXT GOVERNOR HEADS INTO THE
HOME-STRETCH AND SHIELDS AND
BROOKS ANALYZE THE WEEKS NEWS.
WE TURN NOW TO IRAQ.
THAT COUNTRY HIT ANOTHER DEADLY
OUR CHIEF FOREIGN AFFAIRS
CORRESPONDENT MARGARET WARNER
REPORTS.
ANOTHER DEADLY MILESTONE TODAY
AS IT'S LEADER CAME TO THE WHITE
HOUSE LOOKING FOR HELP.
>> Warner: TODAY'S TWO HOUR
MEETING BETWEEN MALIKI AND THE
PRESIDENT CAPPED OFF A BUSY WEEK
IN WASHINGTON FOR IRAQ'S PRIME
MINISTER IN HIS QUEST FOR MORE
U.S. HELP TO FIGHT A RESURGENT
AND DEADLY AL QAEDA THREAT IN
HIS COUNTRY.
MR. OBAMA SAID THAT THREAT WAS
FRONT AND CENTER IN THEIR TALKS.
>> WE HAD A LOT OF DISCUSSION
ABOUT HOW WE CAN WORK TOGETHER
TO PUSH BACK AGAINST THAT
TERRORIST ORGANIZATION THAT
OPERATES NOT ONLY IN IRAQ, BUT
POSES A THREAT TO THE ENTIRE
REGION AND THE UNITED STATES.
>> Warner: BUT HE ALSO URGED
MALIKI AND HIS SHIITE-DOMINATED
GOVERNMENT TO SHARE POWER MORE
BROA A
LINGERING GRIEVANCES OF SUNNIS
AND KURDS.
>> WE WERE ENCOURAGED BY THE
WORK THAT PRIME MINISTER
MALIKI'S DONE IN THE PAST TO
ENSURE THAT ALL PEOPLE INSIDE OF
IRAQ- SUNNI, SHIA, KURD- FEEL
THAT THEY HAVE A VOICE IN THEIR
GOVERNMENT AND ONE OF THE MOST
IMPORTANT EXPRESSIONS OF THAT
WILL BE ELECTIONS NEXT YEAR.
>> Warner: U.S. TROOPS LEFT IRAQ
FOR GOOD AT THE END OF 2011,
THUGH OIT CONTINUED SOME
MILITARY SALES AND DEVELOPMENT
AID.
NOW MALIKI WANTS A LOT MORE
MILITARY HARDWARE, INCLUDING
APACHE HELICOPTERS AND FIGHTER
JETS, AND STEPPED-UP COUNTER-
TERRORISM AND INTELLIGENCE
ASSISTANCE.
BUT AFTER THE MEETING, MALIKI
SOUGHT TO RESPOND TO THE
PRESIDENT'S URGING THAT HE BE
MORE POLITICALLY INCLUSIVE AT
HOME.
>> ( translated ): WHAT WE WANT
IS FOR IRAQ AND THE REGION TO BE
ABLE TO WORK TOGETHER.
AND WE ARE WORKING IN IRAQ AND
MOBILIZING OUR PEOPLE TO FIGHT
AL QAIDA.
THE DEMOCRACTIC EXPERIENCE IN
IRAQ IS NASCENT AND FRAGILE, BUT
IT WAS BORN VERY STRONG.; WE
DEMOCRACY NEEDS TO BE STRONG
BECAUSE IT ALONE WILL ALLOW US
TO FIGHT TERRORISM.
>> Warner: THE NEED IS URGENT:
SINCE THE SPRING, IRAQ HAS SEEN
THE WORST BLOODLETTING IN MORE
THAN FIVE YEARS, MOSTLY DIRECTED
AGAINST SHIA CIVILIANS.
AND UNITED NATIONS REPORT TODAY
ISSUED EYE-POPPING FIGURES FOR
OCTOBER-- NEARLY 1,000 MORE
IRAQIS KILLED, MANY AT MASS
GATHERINGS LIKE WEDDINGS,
FUNERALS AND SCHOOLS.
THE TOLL IN SEPTEMBER WAS
EQUALLY GRIM, AND THERE HAVE
BEEN MORE THAN 7,000 KILLED SO
FAR THIS YEAR.
MALIKI BLAMES THE ATTACKS ON A
REVIVED AL QAEDA BRANCH IN IRAQ
NOW OPERATING FROM BASES IN
WESTERN IRAQ AND UNGOVERNED
EASTERN SYRIA.
BUT IT WILL BE UP TO CONGRESS TO
DECIDE IF MALIKI GETS FROM
WASHINGTON ALL THE EXTRA HELP HE
SEEKS.
>> Woodruff: AND MARGARET, WHO
HAS BEEN COVERING THIS ALL WEEK,
JOINS US NOW.
SO, MALIKI, AS YOU SAY, HAS BEEN
HERE ALL THIS WEEK MAKING A
COURT PRESS.
HOW HAS IT GONE?
>> IT'S BEEN VERY BUMPY, JUDY.
PARTICULARLY ON CAPITOL HILL AND
WITH SOME PEOPLE WHO CONSIDER
THEMSELVES IRAQ EXPERTS.
BUT WE DON'T KNOW BECAUSE OF THE
MEETINGS AT THE WHITE HOUSE AND
THE FOLLOWONS WITH VICE
PRESIDENT BIDEN AND PRIME
MINISTER MALIKI JUST ENDED-- I
DON'T KNOW-- EIGHT MINUTES AGO.
SO WHAT WE DON'T -- WHAT I CAN'T
TELL YOU NOW IS WHETHER THE
PRESIDENT, VICE PRESIDENT,
SECRETARY KERRY CAME AWAY WITH A
SENSE THAT MALIKI REALLY IS --
REALLY GETS IT.
REALLY GETS THE FACT THAT HE CAN
NOT SOLVE THIS VIOLENCE
PROBLEM-- AS AWFUL AS IT I ALON.
THAT HE HAS TO ALSO MAKE
INTERNAL CHANGES.
>> Woodruff: TELL US ABOUT THE
APPROACH OF THE ADMINISTRATION
VERSUS THE CONGRESS.
WHAT ARE YOU HEARING?
WHAT ARE THEY SAYING?
>> IT'S VERY DIFFERENT.
FIRST OF ALL, CONGRESS REALLY
MATTERS HERE.
IT'S IMPORTANT TO KNOW, BECAUSE
THE SALES HE WANTS SAY APACHE
MILITARY HELICOPTERS, FOR
INSTANCE, HAVE TO GET YEAH OR
NAY FROM THE SENATE FOREIGN
RELATIONS COMMITTEE.
IT'S A QUIRK IN THE LAW.
NOT THE WHOLE SENATE BUT THE
FOREIGN RELATIONS COMMITTEE.
THE SENATORS, THE TWO LEADING
SENATORS, CHAIRMAN ROBERT
MENDEZ-- A DEMOCRAT-- AND BOB
CORKER OF TENNESSEE-- THE
REPUBLICAN-- AND MANY OTHERS,
SENATOR McCAIN WHO YOU SAW
INTERVIEWED THIS WEEK, ALL
BELIEVE THAT MALIKI'S
EXACERBATING HIS PROEMSBL BUT
ALIENATING THE SUNNIS.
THEY DO THINGS LIKE GO INTO
SUNNI NEIGHBORHOODS AND ROUND UP
500 YOUNG MEN IN THE NAME OF
FIGHTING TERRORISM AND ONE
AMERICAN OFFICIAL TOLD THEM
"YOU'RE MAKING THE SAME WE
CREATE MORE TERRORISTS."
THEY'RE CONCERNED ABOUT ALLOWING
IRANIAN OVERFLIGHTS OF MATERIAL
AND WEAPONS TO ASSAD'S FORCES IN
SYRIA AND FINALLY THEY ARE VERY
CONCERNED THAT ANY
COUNTERTERRORISM OR WEAPONS THEY
GIVE, MALIKI COULD USE TO
REPRESS HIS OWN PEOPLE BECAUSE
THEY HAVE CRACKED DOWN ON A LOT
OF PROTESTERS.
SO THE WHITE HOUSE -- LET ME
JUST SAY BRIEFLY-- SEES ALL THAT
BUT THEY ARE MOST CONCERNED
ABOUT THIS ABSOLUTELY VOLATILE
SITUATION ALONG THAT BORDER
BETWEEN IRAQ AND SYRIA AND THAT
ONE, THEY COULD LOSE IRAQ,
QUOTE/UNQUOTE, AS ONE OFFICIAL
SAID TO ME TODAY.
AND, TWO, IT MAKES IT REALLY
HARD TO CONTAIN THE RADICAL
JIHADIS WITHIN SYRIA.
>> Woodruff: SO MALIKI DID
SPEND TIME ON THE HILL?
>> UH-HUH.
>> Woodruff: HOW MUCH PROGRESS
DID HE MAKE THERE?
WHAT HAPPENED?
>> IT WENT VERY BADLY.
THE KEY MEETINGS YESTERDAY WERE
WITH SENATOR McCAIN -- EXCUSE
ME, WEDNESDAY, AND THEN WITH
CORKEANDR  MENDEZ AND I'M TOLD
THAT THAT LATTER MEETING WAS
PARTICULARLY CONTENTIOUS.
THEY LAID OUT ALL THEIR
CONCERNS.
HE SORT OF SAT IMPASSIVELY AND
ACCORDING TO THE AIDES PRESENT
HE SIMPLY REPEATED PLATITUDES
ABOUT HOW HE'S GOVERNING BY THE
CONSTITUTION.
AND FINALLY MENDEZ GOT SO -- I
DON'T KNOW IF IT'S ANGRY BUT
CERTAINLY PEEVED THAT HE SAID,
LOOK I FEEL YOU'RE GLOSSING OVER
OUR CONCERNS AND YOU NEED TO
KNOW YOU'RE NOT GETTING ANY OF
THIS WITHOUT OUR OKAY.
AND SENATOR CORKER CAME OUT
AFTERWARDS AND SAID QUESTION
FELT HE WAS COMPLETELY
DISMISSIVE OF OUR CONCERNS.
>> Woodruff: IT'S KNOWN ONE OF
THE THINGS THEY FEEL STRONGLY
ABOUT IS HE NEEDS TO SHARE
POWER.
YOU'VE BEEN IN IRAQ, YOU'VE
TALKED TO PEOPLE WHO ARE CLOSE
TO MALIKI.
HOW DO THEY EXPLAIN FACT THAT HE
DOESN'T LIKE THAT IDEA?
>> I THINK FORMER AMBASSADOR
RYAN CROCKER SAID IT WELL IN THE
PEACE I RAN LAST NIGHT WHICH IS
-- THE PIECE I RAN LAST NIGHT
WHICH IS THAT YOU HAVE TO
UNDERSTAND THAT HE COMES FROM
THE DA'WAH PARTY, SHIITES, THEY
WERE BRUTALLY REPRESSED UNDER
SADDAM HUSSEIN.
SO NOW THAT HE'S ON TOP AND THE
SHIITES ARE ON TOP THEY'RE
AFRAID OH, MY GOD, IF WE SHARE
POWER WITH THE SUNNIS THE BAD
OLD DAYS WILL RETURN.
AND WE ARE REALLY -- SO THEY
JUST DON'T KNOWOW H -- THEY
DON'T TRUST IN THE GOVERNING
SYSTEM TO FAIRLY ALLOCATE POWER.
SO INSTEAD THEY CLAMP DOWN.
YOU'RE SEEING THE SAME THING IN
EGYPT WHERE YOU SAW THE MUSLIM
BROTHERHOOD ONCE THEY GOT ON TOP
AFTER YEARS OF REPRESSION CUT
EVERYONE OUT.
AND SO REALLY IN THE WHOLE POST
ARAB SPRING MIDDLE EAST WE ARE
SEEING THE INABILITY OF --
ELECTIONS DON'T SOLVE THE
PROBLEM, HABITS OF MIND HAVE TO
BE DEVELOPED THAT ARE VERY
DIFFERENT FROM WHAT THEY HAVE
LIVED WITH.
>> Woodruff: MARGARET, GIVEN
ALL THAT, WHERE DOES IT GO FROM
HERE?
>> WELL, THE FIRST THING IS THE
ADMINISTRATION -- DID MALIKI
LEARN SOMETHING BETWEEN
WEDNESDAY'S MEETINGS AND TODAY'S
MEETINGS WITH THE WHITE HOUSE
AND I FRANKLY CAN'T TELL YOU THE
ANSWER TO THAT.
BUT I'M TOLD THAT, FOR INSTANCE,
THE APACHE HELICOPTER REQUEST IS
ON THE HILL, IT'S NOT BEING
ACTED ON.
I THINK THAT MALIKI'S GOING TO
HAVE GO BACK AND MAKE SOME BOLD
STEPS TO SHOW GREATER
INCLUSIVENESS.
HE'S VERY DONE SOME BECAUSE HIS
PARTY ACTUALLY TOOK A DRUBBING
IN RECENT LOCAL ELECTIONS
BECAUSE EVEN THE SHIITES ARE
FURIOUS THAT NOBODY'S PROTECTING
THEM FROM ALL THESE TERRORIST
ATTACKS.
SO THE QUESTION IS WHETHER THE
COMBINATION OF POLITICAL
PRESSURE REALLY INTERNALLY PLUS
FROM THE ADMINISTRATION WILL
MAKE HIM "SEE THE LIGHT" IN
AMERICANS' TERMS.
THE DANGER IS, OF COURSE, THAT
EVERY MONTH THAT GOES BY YOU SAW
THOSE HORRIFIC FIGURES, THE
SITUATION GETS FAR MORE
DANGEROUS, FAR MORE VOLATILE,
FAR MORE LIKELY TO DRAW IN
CIVILIAN SUNNIS AND SHIITES INTO
A REALLY BLOODY CIVIL WAR OF THE
KIND YOU ADD IN '50 TO '07.
>> Woodruff: IT REALLY IS AN
AWFUL SITUATION.
GREAT REPORTING, MARGARET.
THANKS.
>> THANKS.
>> Woodruff: THE NUMBER OF
AMERICANS ENROLLED FOR FOOD
STAMPS HAS SOARED BY 70% SINCE
THE RECESSION, BUT ADDITIONAL
ASSISTANCE FOR THOSE IN NEED IS
DWINDLING.
AND THE FUTURE OF ONE OF THE
COUNTRY'S LARGEST SAFETY NET
PROGRAMS ISN'T BRIGHT.
HARI SREENIVASAN BEGINS OUR
COVERAGE WITH THIS REPORT.
>> Reporter: STARTING TODAY,
MORE THAN 47 MILLION FOOD STAMP
RECIPIENTS HAVE TO GET BY WITH
LESS.
A TEMPORARY ADDITION IN BENEFITS
HAS EXPIRED, FOUR YEARS AFTER IT
TOOK EFFT ASEC PART OF AN
ECONOMIC STIMULUS PROGRAM.
OD SFOTAMP RECIPIENTS AT THIS
ARLINGTON, VIRGINIA FOOD BANK
SAID TODAY THEY'LL FEEL THE
LOSS.
>> IT'S GOING TO AFFECT ME A LOT
BECAUSE WE'RE ON A TIGHT BUDGET.
A LOT OF PEOPLE ARE ON A TIGHT
BUDGET, AND IF WE DON'T HAVE A
CERTAIN AMOUNT OF MONEY, WE'RE
GOING TO STARVE.
>> Reporter: THE SUPPLEMENTAL
NUTRITION ASSISTANCE PROGRAM OR
"SNAP," AS IT'S FORMALLY KNOWN,
NOW SERVES ONE IN SEVEN
AMERICANS.
LAST YEAR, IT COST ROUGHLY $80
BILLION, MORE THAN DOUBLE WHAT
IT COST IN 2008.
THE NEW REDUCTIONS WILL SAVE
ABOUT $5 BILLION FOR THIS FISCAL
YEAR.
FOR A FAMILY OF FOUR, THAT MEANS
LOSING $36 A MONTH, AND GOING
BACK TO A TOTAL MONTHLY BENEFIT
OF $632.
IN GEORGIA, JON WEST, WITH THE
ATLANTA COMMUNITY FOOD BANK SAYS
THAT AMOUNT OF MONEY SIMPLY
WON'T GO FAR ENOUGH.
>> THEIR FOOD STAMPS ONLY LAST
THEM ABOUT THREE WEEKS OUT OF A
MONTH SO WITH A CUT OF $36 A
MONTH THAT THEY'RE GOING TO BE
EXPERIENCING NOW, THEY'RE GOING
TO BE LUCKY TO MAKE THAT STRETCH
TWO, TWO AND A HALF WEEKS.
>> Reporter: AS A RESULT, FOOD
BANKS AND OTHER CHARITIES ARE
ANTICIPATING INCREASED DEMAND.
BACK IN VIRGINIA, CHARLES MENG
IS EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR OF THE
ARLINGTON FOOD ASSISTANCE
CENTER.
>> IT WILL CLEARLY INCREASE THE
NUMBER OF FAMILIES WE SEE ON A
DAILY AND A WEEKLY BASIS.
YOU KNOW THESE ARE FAMILIES WHO
REALLY DO NEED FOOD.
THESE ARE NOT FAMILIES TAKING
ADVANTAGE OF A SYSTEM, OR A
SITUATION.
THESE ARE FAMILIES THAT ARE
REALLY DESPERATELY STRUGGLING
AND NOT HAVING ENOUGH FOOD.
>> Reporter: ALL OF THIS, AS
CONGRESS IS DEBATING MAKING NEW
CUTS, AS PART OF A BROADER FARM
BILL.
THE REPUBLICAN-CONTROLLED HOUSE
IS PUSHING TO TAKE $39 BILLION
OUT OF FOOD STAMPS OVER THE NEXT
DECADE.
REPUBLICAN FRANK LUCAS OF
OKLAHOMA CHAIRS THE HOUSE
AGRICULTURE COMMITTEE.
>> ULTIMATELY, THIS BILL
ENCOURAGES AND ENABLES WORK
PARTICIPATION AND MAKES
COMMONSENSE REFORMS, CLOSES
PROGRAM LOOPHOLES AND ELIMINATES
WASTE, FRAUD, AND ABUSE IN THE
SNAP PROGRAM, SAVING THE
AMERICAN TAXPAYER NEARLY $40
BILLION.
>> Reporter: THE DEMOCRATIC
MAJORITY IN THE SENATE IS
PUSHING A FARM BILL THAT ALSO
CUTS FOOD STAMPS, BUT BY FAR
LESS: $4 BILLION OVER TEN YEARS.
>> Woodruff: JEFFREY BROWN TAKES
A CLOSER LOOK AT THE IMMEDIATE
IMPACT OF THESE CHANGES AND WHAT
MAY LIE AHEAD.
>> Brown: WE EXPLORE SOME OF THE
CHANGES ON THE TABLE WITH ELLEN
TELLER OF THE FOOD RESEARCH AND
ACTION CENTER, A NOT-FOR-PROFIT
THAT WORKS WITH HUNDREDS OF
GROUPS AROUND THE COUNTRY TO
ERADICATE HUNGER.
AND ROBERT RECTOR IS WITH THE
HERITAGE FOUNDATION.
HIS WORK ON THIS IS CONSIDERED
INFLUENTIAL WITH REPUBLICAN
MEMBERS IN CONGRESS.
WELCOME TO BOTH OF YOU.
ELLEN TELLER, THIS IMMEDIATE
ACTION, CUTTING BACK ASSISTANCE,
ALLOWING WHAT WAS CONSIDERED A
TEMPORARY INCREASE TO LAPSE, YOU
DON'T THINK THIS IS A GOOD IDEA?
>> NO, I DON'T.
INITIALLY WHEN CONGRESS WAS
DRAFTING THE RECOVERY ACT THEY
PUT IN PLACE THIS BOOST IN SNAP
OR FOOD STAMP ALLOTMENTS AND IT
WAS NEVER INTENDED TO AFFECT A
FAMILY BY SEEING A REDUCTION
FROM ONE MONTH TO THE NEXT BUT
BECAUSE OF CONGRESSIONAL
INTERFERENCE TODAY WE ARE SEEING
A CLIFF SO A FAMILY GOING IN FOR
GROCERY STORE TODAY WILL SEE
EVERY SNAP HOUSEHOLD WILL SEE A
REDUCTION IN THEIR MONTHLY
BENEFITS LOWER THAN WHAT THEY
RECEIVED LAST MONTH.
>> Brown: MR. RECK SNORE.
>> WELL, THIS INCREASE WAS
INTENDED TO BE TEMPORARY AS PART
OF THE STIMULUS PACKAGE.
NO ONE THAT I'M AWARE OF EVER
ADVOCATED IT BEING PERMANENT AND
I DON'T EVEN THINK THE OBAMA
ADMINISTRATION IS SEEKING TO
MAKE IT PERMANENT.
BUT ALSO I THINK IT'S VERY
IMPORTANT THAT YOU CAN'T TALK
ABOUT THE SAFETY NET ONE PROGRAM
IN ISOLATION.
WE HAVE OVER 80 DIFFERENT
PROGRAMS PROVIDING CASH FOOD
HOUSING AND MEDICAL CARE TO POOR
PEOPLE.
DOESN'T INCLUDE SOCIAL SECURITY
AND MEDICARE.
WE SPEND CLOSE TO A TRILLION
DOLLARS A YEAR.
THAT'S ABOUT $10,000 FOR EACH
LOW INCOME AMERICAN.
THIS CONSTITUTES A CUT OF ABOUT
OF ABOUT ONE HALF OF 1%.
>> Brown: ARE YOU SUGGESTING
PEOPLE WILL NOT FEEL THIS RIGHT
AWAY?
>> I'M SUGGESTING VERY FEW
PEOPLE GET FOOD STAMPS ALONE AND
THEREFORE YOU HAVE TO LOOK AT
THE OVERALL PACKAGE OF
ASSISTANCE THAT THEY GET WHICH
IS CLOSER TO $27,000 TO $30,000
A YEAR.
IN THAT CONTEXT THIS TYPE OF
RESTRAINT IS LESS ALARMING THAN
IF YOU JUST LOOK AT FOOD STAMPS
ALONE.
VERY FEW FAMILIES GET FOOD
STAMPS ALONE.
>> WE ARE NOW TALKING ABOUT
$1.40 PER PERSON PER MEAL.
AND WHEREAS THE SNAP ALLOTMENT
COULD HAVE LASTED FOR THREE
WEEKS BECAUSE OF THIS REDUCTION
IN A HOUSEHOLD'S MONTHLY
EXPENDITURE FOR FOOD, EMERGENCY
FOOD PROVIDERS WILL BE SEEING
PEOPLE COMING IN EARLIER IN THE
MONTH NEEDING ASSISTANCE.
SNAP ONLY GOES FOR FOOD
PURCHASES.
>> Brown: WHAT ABOUT HIS
LARGER ARGUMENT THAT IT HAS TO
BE SEEN -- EVEN THOUGH IT'S ONLY
FOR FOOD PURCHASES, IT HAS TO BE
SEEN WITHIN THIS LARGER SAFETY
NET.
>> WELL, I THINK WHAT HAPPENED
WAS IS THAT THE RECESSION
DRAGGED ON LONGER THAN PEOPLE
ANTICIPATED AND FOR LOW INCOME
PEOPLE THEY'VE BEEN SLOWER TO
SEE THE REBOUND IN THE ECONOMY
SO THEIR NEEDS HAVE NOT CHANGED.
THEY STILL SEE THEIR HOURS
SUPPRESSED, UNEMPLOYMENT HIGH
AND THEY STILL NEED THIS FOOD
ASSISTANCE AND THEY RELY ON MAP
IS FOR MAKING SURE THEIR
HOUSEHOLDS HAVE A NUTRITIONALLY
ADEQUATE DIET.
>> Brown: THAT'S PART OF THE
ARGUMENT, RIGHT?
ONE ARGUE SYSTEM A VERY LARGE
ARGUMENT THAT'S BEEN GOING ON
FOR A LONG TIME.
ANOTHER ONE IS THE IMMEDIATE
WHAT HAPPENED DURING THE
RECESSION AND THINGS HAVEN'T
RECOVERED FAR LOT OF PEOPLE.
>> I THINK THAT'S EXACTLY RIGHT
WHICH IS WHY WE'RE NOT
ADVOCATING BACK TO
PRERECESSIONARY SPEND BUG THE
FACT IS WE'RE SPENDING ABOUT 50%
MORE ON AGGREGATE WELFARE THAN
WE WERE WHEN THE RECESSION
BEGAN.
IT'S A HUGE, HUGE INCREASE AND
UNDER OBAMA'S BUDGET IT'S NOT
SCHEDULED TO GO DOWN.
THE TRILLION DOLLARS A YEAR WILL
GO UP TO A TRILLION AND A HALF.
>> Brown: WHY DO YOU THINK THE
NUMBERS HAVE GONE UP SO HIGH IN
TERMS OF THE NUMBER OF PEOPLE?
>> I THINK PART OF IT IS THE
ECONOMY.
NO ONE COULD DENY THAT.
THERE'S SERIOUS RATES OF
UNEMPLOYMENT THAT CONTINUE BUT
BUT THIS PROGRAM IS RIFE WITH
FRAUD.
IT HAS AN OUTREACH TO BRING
PEOPLE IN ANOTHER THING THEY'VE
DONE IS GET RID OF THE ASSET
LIMITS WHICH WERE PART OF THIS
PROGRAM.
YOU CAN HAVE A MILLION DOLLARS
IN THE BANK, YOU'RE UNEMPLOYED,
YOU CAN GET INTO FOOD STAMPS
NOW.
THAT'S AN OUTRAGE.
WE ALSO HAVE WEAKER WORK
REQUIREMENTS ON THIS PROGRAM
THAN WE DO ON THE PROGRAMS FOR
SINGLE MOTHERS.
AN ABLE-BODIED 20-YEAR-OLD WHO
ISN'T WORKING ISN'T REQUIRED TO
DO A SINGLE THING TO GET HIS
FOOD STAMP BENEFITS.
THAT'S AN ABUSE OF THE TAXPAYER
AND PROBABLY NOT GOOD FOR THE
RECIPIENT EITHER.
>> Brown: IS THAT TRUE ABOUT
THE MILLION DOLLARS FIRST?
>> WELL, FIRST OF ALL, THE
PROGRAM WORKS.
IT WORKS EXACTLY THE WAY IT WAS
DESIGNED WHEN THE ECONOMY IS
WEEK, FOOD STAMP PARTICIPATION
GOES UP.
WHEN THE ECONOMY IS STRONG,
PARTICIPATION GOES DOWN AND THE
CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE, THE
INDEPENDENT ARM OF CONGRESS THAT
SCORES OR CALCULATES HOW THINGS
PROJECT INTO THE YEARS SAYS THAT
BY THE END OF THIS DECADE WE
WILL SEE A DROP IN
PARTICIPATION, WHY?
BECAUSE THE ECONOMY IS EXPECTED
TO GET STRONGER AND PEOPLE AS
THEY MOVE INTO JOBS, AS THEIR
HOURS INCREASE, AS THEY HAVE
MORE INCOME THEY COME OFF THE
FOOD STAMP PROGRAM.
PEOPLE COME ON AND OFF THE
PROGRAM.
THEY DON'T STAY ON THE PROGRAM
FOR LONG PERIODS.
>> BUT THERE ARE ABUSES, OKAY?
AND SHE JUST IGNORED THE FACT
THAT THEY'VE REMOVED THE ASSET
TEST.
THIS WAS A PROGRAM THAT USED TO
BE YOU WOULD -- WHEN YOU DIDN'T
HAVE CASH TO SUPPORT YOURSELF
AND FEED YOURSELF THEN YOU COULD
GET INTO THIS PROGRAM.
WE DID AWAY WITH THAT.
THERE'S NO MEANINGFUL ASSET
TEST.
ONE OF THE THINGS THE
REPUBLICANS ARE DOING IS
RESTORING THE ASSET TEST.
>> A BIPARTISAN CONGRESS DECIDED
YEARS AGO THAT WORKING POOR
FAMILIES WITH CHILDREN WHO ARE
MAKING AN INCOME MAY NEED TO
ACQUIRE SOME ASSETS AND IN ORDER
TO MOVE OUT OF POVERTY.
SO IT WAS A BIPARTISAN CONGRESS
THAT GAVE STATES THE OPTION TO
REMOVE THE ASSET TEST.
AND YOU STILL AT THE END OF THE
DAY HAVE TO IN YOUR NET INCOME
STILL BE ELIGIBLE FOR FOOD
STAMPS SO YOU STILL HAVE TO GO
THROUGH ALL THE OTHER TESTS IN
ORDER TO GET ON THE TPAO +*S STP
PROGRAM.
>> AND YOUR ARGUE SYSTEM THE
PROGRAM BASICALLY WORKS,
CORRECT?
>> YES, AND IT WORKS FOR THE
PEOPLE IN THIS COUNTRY WHO NEED
IT.
AND IF YOU LOOK AT THIS PROGRAM,
83% OF SNAP BENEFITS GO TO
HOUSEHOLD WITH A CHILD OR
ELDERLY PERSON OR DISABLED
PERSON.
SO THIS IS THE LARGEST OF THE
CHILD NUTRITION PROGRAMS AND
THESE ARE THE PEOPLE WE ARE
SUPPORTING WITH SNAP.
>> Brown: THOSE FACTS HAVEN'T
CHANGED, RIGHT?
ABOUT WHERE MOST OF THE MONEY
GOES?
>> THERE'S A REALITY THAT HALF
OF THE ABLE-BODIED PEOPLE ON
FOOD STAMPS DON'T DO ANY WORK
DURING THE MONTH AND I CAN CAN
SEE THAT THEY HAVE PROBLEMS WITH
UNEMPLOYMENT BUT THE REALITY IS
--
>> Brown: WELL, THEY DO HAVE
PROBLEMS WITH UNEMPLOYMENT,
RIGHT?
>> THEY DO.
BUT IN THE LONG-TERM SENSE I
BELIEVE THAT THIS PROGRAM ALONG
WITH OTHER 80 PROGRAM PROGRAMS
THAT PROVIDE ASSISTANCE TO
ABLE-BODIED PEOPLE THOSE ADULTS
OUGHT TO BE REQUIRED TO WORK OR
PREPARE FOR WORK OR AT LEAST
LOOK FOR A JOB.
THAT CONSTRAINS COSTS A BIT AND
IT'S BEST FOR RECIPIENT AND IT'S
FAIR TO THE TAXPAYER.
THIS PROGRAM DOES NOT DO THIS.
IT HAS NO ASSET TEST.
IT HAS NO MEANINGFUL WORK OR
ACTIVITY REQUIREMENTS.
>> Brown: THAT'S PART OF THE
LARGER DEBATE THAT IS BEFORE
CONGRESS.
WE'LL WATCH THAT ONE.
ROBERT RECTOR, ELLEN TELLER,
THANKS SO MUCH.
>> Woodruff: WE LOOK NOW TO NEXT
TUESDAY'S ELECTIONS, AND ONE OF
ONLY TWO GUBERNATORIAL RACES IN
THE NATION THIS YEAR, THIS ONE
IN VIRGINIA.
FORMER DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL
COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN TERRY
McAULIFFE IS CHALLENGING
REPUBLICAN ATTORNEY GENERAL
KEN CUCCINELLI IN A STATE THAT'S
GROWING FAST AND FREQUENTLY
CHANGING PARTY HANDS.
KWAME HOLMAN HAS OUR REPORT ON
THE CONTEST, AND ITS NATIONAL
IMPLICATIONS.
>> Reporter: BOTH PARTIES ARE
LOOKING AT VIRGINIA FOR CLUES
ABOUT FUTURE ELECTIONS.
AND THAT INTRIGUE HAS BROUGHT A
STEADY STREAM OF NATIONAL
INTO THE STATE FOR THE
HOMESTRETCH.
LONGTIME PARTY FUNDRAISER AND
DEMOCRATIC CANDIDATE TERRY
McAULIFFE WAS JOINED ON THE
TRAIL THIS WEEK BY FORMER
PRESIDENT BILL CLINTON.
>> I WANT YOU TO ELECT HIM
GOVERNOR BECAUSE WHAT HAPPENS IN
VIRGINIA IS REALLY IMPORTANT TO
THIS COUNTRY.
>> Reporter: BEFORE THAT,
McAULIFFE RECEIVED THE
ENDORSEMENT OF FORMER SECRETARY
OF STATE HILLARY CLINTON.
>> SUPPORTING AND VOTING FOR
TERRY McAULIFFE WILL MAKE YOU
PROUD OF YOURSELVES, OF THIS
COMMONWEALTH, AND YES, OF THIS
COUNTRY.
>> Reporter: VIRGINIA'S ATTORNEY
GENERAL REPUBLICAN KEN
CUCCINELLI HAS APPEARED IN
RECENT DAYS WITH KENTUCKY
SENATOR RAND PAUL, A FAVORITE OF
THE TEA PARTY.
>> WE NEED CHAMPIONS AND YOU
NEED A GOVERNOR WHO WILL STAND
UP AGAINST AN OVERBEARING AND
OVERZEALOUS GOVERNMENT.
CUCCINELLI'S THE ONE TO DO IT.
( CHEERS )
>> Reporter: LOUISIANA GOVERNOR
BOBBY JINDAL ALSO HAS RALLIED
VOTERS FOR THE REPUBLICAN.
>> THIS ISN'T A CHOICE BETWEEN
TWO PERSONALITIES.
THIS ISN'T A CHOICE BETWEEN TWO
GUYS THAT HAVE SLIGHTLY
DIFFERENT VIEWS.
THIS IS A CLEAR CONTRAST.
>> Reporter: THE CONTEST ALSO
HAS CAPTURED THE ATTENTION OF
VIRGINIANS LOOKING FOR SIGNS OF
WHERE THEIR STATE IS HEADED
POLITICALLY.
>> I THINK IT'S DANGEROUS TO SAY
VIRGINIA IS A BLUE STATE OR EVEN
A PURPLE STATE.
REMEMBER WHAT THIS STATE WAS
LIKE 15 YEARS AGO?
THIS WAS THE BEDROCK CHRISTIAN
RIGHT STATE.
IT DOESN'T GO AWAY.
>> WE'RE KIND OF IN THE
CROSSHAIRS OF A LOT OF CHANGE IN
AMERICA.
YOU KNOW, THERE'S PART OF
NORTHERN VIRGINIA THAT'S KIND OF
MOVING IN ONE DIRECTION, THERE'S
THE REST OF VIRGINIA THAT'S KIND
OF MOVING IN ANOTHER DIRECTION.
SO IT'S KIND OF LIKE WE'RE AT A
CROSSROADS IN ICH WHWAY WE'RE
GOING TO GO.
>> Reporter: WITH SO MUCH AT
STAKE, A FIERCE BATTLE HAS BEEN
WAGED ACROSS THE AIRWAVES.
>> AS GOVERNOR, WHERE WOULD KEN
CUCCINELLI TAKE HIS EXTREME
AGENDA?
OUR SCHOOLS.
>> Reporter: IN FACE-TO-FACE
DEBATES.
>> SAYING THE WORDS EDUCATION
AND RESEARCH, THAT'S ALL GREAT,
BUT THOSE ARE GOALS, THOSE ARE
PLATITUDES, THEY'RE NOT PLANS.
>> Reporter: AND ON THE CAMPAIGN
TRAIL WITH THE CANDIDATES
PULLING NO PUNCHES.
>> IF YOU LIKE D.C. POLITICS,
YOU'LL LOVE TERRY McAULIFFE.
IF YOU LIKE DETROIT FINANCES,
>> KEN'S NEW CAMPAIGN SLOGAN IS
YOU'LL LOVE TERRY McAULIFFE.
"FIGHTING FOR VIRGINIA."
>> KEN'S NEW CAMPAIGN SLOGAN IS
BUT AFTER CAMPAIGNING WITH TED
"FIGHTING FOR VIRGINIA."
CRUZ ITS PRETTY CLEAR THAT ITS
BUT AFTER CAMPAIGNING WITH TED
JUST THAT.
CRUZ ITS PRETTY CLEAR THAT ITS
A SLOGAN.
JUST THAT.
>> Reporter: STEPHEN FARNSWORTH
A SLOGAN.
IS A PROFESSOR OF POLITICAL
>> Reporter: STEPHEN FARNSWORTH
SCIENCE AT THE UNIVERSITY OF
IS A PROFESSOR OF POLITICAL
MARY WASHINGTON.
SCIENCE AT THE UNIVERSITY OF
>> FROM DAY ONE IT WAS ALL ABOUT
MARY WASHINGTON.
HOW THE OTHER SIDE WAS UNFIT TO
>> FROM DAY ONE IT WAS ALL ABOUT
GOVERN.
HOW THE OTHER SIDE WAS UNFIT TO
AND IN SOME WAYS WHAT'S
GOVERN.
HAPPENING, I THINK, IS THAT
AND IN SOME WAYS WHAT'S
VOTERS, AT LEAST SOME OF THEM,
HAPPENING, I THINK, IS THAT
ARE STARTING TO AGREE WITH BOTH
VOTERS, AT LEAST SOME OF THEM,
CAMPAIGNS.
ARE STARTING TO AGREE WITH BOTH
>> Reporter: AMONG THEM: ANDREA
CAMPAIGNS.
KHOURY.
>> Reporter: AMONG THEM: ANDREA
SHE TRADITIONALLY VOTES
KHOURY.
REPUBLICAN, BUT SAYS THE
SHE TRADITIONALLY VOTES
NEGATIVITY COMING FROM BOTH
REPUBLICAN, BUT SAYS THE
SIDES HAS LEFT HER UNDECIDED
NEGATIVITY COMING FROM BOTH
THIS YEAR.
SIDES HAS LEFT HER UNDECIDED
>> I THINK THEY'VE BEEN DOING
THIS YEAR.
MORE ATTACKING THAN ACTUALLY
>> I THINK THEY'VE BEEN DOING
WHAT THEIR PLATFORM IS.
MORE ATTACKING THAN ACTUALLY
AND I THINK AS A VOTER, I NEED
WHAT THEIR PLATFORM IS.
TO KNOW WHAT I'M VOTING FOR, NOT
AND I THINK AS A VOTER, I NEED
WHAT I'M VOTING AGAINST.
TO KNOW WHAT I'M VOTING FOR, NOT
>> Reporter: THE HEATED RHETORIC
WHAT I'M VOTING AGAINST.
HAS TURNED OFF OTHER VIRGINIANS.
>> Reporter: THE HEATED RHETORIC
>> I'VE ONLY HEARD NEGATIVITY.
HAS TURNED OFF OTHER VIRGINIANS.
I'VE ONLY HEARD MUDSLINGING FROM
>> I'VE ONLY HEARD NEGATIVITY.
BOTH SIDES.
I'VE ONLY HEARD MUDSLINGING FROM
>> IF I VOTE I WOULD WRITE
BOTH SIDES.
MYSELF IN ON THE BALLOT BECAUSE
>> IF I VOTE I WOULD WRITE
I'M SO DISGUSTED WITH THE WAY
MYSELF IN ON THE BALLOT BECAUSE
EVERYTHING'S BEEN RUN SO FAR.
I'M SO DISGUSTED WITH THE WAY
>> Reporter: HEADING INTO THE
EVERYTHING'S BEEN RUN SO FAR.
FINAL WEEKEND, POLLS SHOWS
>> Reporter: HEADING INTO THE
McAULIFFE RUNNING AHEAD, BUT
FINAL WEEKEND, POLLS SHOWS
WITH MARGINS RANGING FROM TWO TO
McAULIFFE RUNNING AHEAD, BUT
11 POINTS.
WITH MARGINS RANGING FROM TWO TO
A McAULIFFE VICTORY WOULD BRING
11 POINTS.
TO AN END A 40-YEAR TREND IN
A McAULIFFE VICTORY WOULD BRING
VIRGINIA POLITICS.
TO AN END A 40-YEAR TREND IN
SINCE 1973, THE STATE HAS
VIRGINIA POLITICS.
ELECTED A GOVERNOR FROM THE
SINCE 1973, THE STATE HAS
OPPOSITE PARTY THAT WON THE
ELECTED A GOVERNOR FROM THE
WHITE HOUSE THE YEAR BEFORE.
OPPOSITE PARTY THAT WON THE
WITH PRESIDENT OBAMA'S RE-
WHITE HOUSE THE YEAR BEFORE.
ELECTION LAST YEAR, CUCCINELLI
WITH PRESIDENT OBAMA'S RE-
IS HOPING THAT TRADITION
ELECTION LAST YEAR, CUCCINELLI
CONTINUES.
IS HOPING THAT TRADITION
THE G.O.P. FIREBRAND WAS ELECTED
CONTINUES.
VIRGINIA'S ATTORNEY GENERAL BY
THE G.O.P. FIREBRAND WAS ELECTED
15 POINTS IN 2009.
VIRGINIA'S ATTORNEY GENERAL BY
IN THAT ROLE, HE HAS CHALLENGED
15 POINTS IN 2009.
THE OBAMA ADMINISTRATION OVER
IN THAT ROLE, HE HAS CHALLENGED
HEALTH CARE AND ENVIRONMENTAL
THE OBAMA ADMINISTRATION OVER
REGULATION.
HEALTH CARE AND ENVIRONMENTAL
AND THAT'S A THEME HE'S
REGULATION.
CONTINUED TO PLAY UP THROUGHOUT
AND THAT'S A THEME HE'S
THE CAMPAIGN.
CONTINUED TO PLAY UP THROUGHOUT
>> I'M KIND OF GLAD THE
THE CAMPAIGN.
PRESIDENT IS COMING TO CAMPAIGN
>> I'M KIND OF GLAD THE
FOR MY OPPONENT.
PRESIDENT IS COMING TO CAMPAIGN
LET THERE BE NO LACK OF CLARITY
FOR MY OPPONENT.
AS WE GET TO NEXT TUESDAY.
LET THERE BE NO LACK OF CLARITY
SEND THEM A MESSAGE!
AS WE GET TO NEXT TUESDAY.
>> Reporter: IT'S A TACTIC
SEND THEM A MESSAGE!
CUCCINELLI ALSO HAS USED ON
>> Reporter: IT'S A TACTIC
TELEVISION, WHERE HE'S TRIED TO
CUCCINELLI ALSO HAS USED ON
TIE HIS OPPONENT TO THE HEALTH
TELEVISION, WHERE HE'S TRIED TO
CARE LAW.
TIE HIS OPPONENT TO THE HEALTH
>> TERRY McAULIFFE: EXPAND
CARE LAW.
OBAMACARE, INCREASE TAXES.
>> TERRY McAULIFFE: EXPAND
KEN CUCCINELLI: CREATE JOBS, CUT
OBAMACARE, INCREASE TAXES.
TAXES.
KEN CUCCINELLI: CREATE JOBS, CUT
TO STOP OBAMACARE AND HIGHER
TAXES.
TAXES, THERE'S ONLY ONE CHOICE.
TO STOP OBAMACARE AND HIGHER
>> Reporter: UNLIKE HIS RIVAL,
TAXES, THERE'S ONLY ONE CHOICE.
McAULIFFE SUPPORTS EXPANDING
>> Reporter: UNLIKE HIS RIVAL,
MEDICAID UNDER THE AFFORDABLE
McAULIFFE SUPPORTS EXPANDING
CARE ACT.
MEDICAID UNDER THE AFFORDABLE
HE SAYS ACCEPTING THE FEDERAL
CARE ACT.
AID WOULD HELP MORE VIRGINIA
HE SAYS ACCEPTING THE FEDERAL
RESIDENTS OBTAIN COVERAGE AND
AID WOULD HELP MORE VIRGINIA
BENEFIT THE STATE'S ECONOMY.
RESIDENTS OBTAIN COVERAGE AND
>> WHEN WE KNOW THAT 400,000
BENEFIT THE STATE'S ECONOMY.
VIRGINIANS COULD GAIN HEALTH
>> WHEN WE KNOW THAT 400,000
CARE ACCESS BY ACCEPTING THE
VIRGINIANS COULD GAIN HEALTH
MEDICAID EXPANSION, WE MUST ACT.
CARE ACCESS BY ACCEPTING THE
( APPLAUSE )
MEDICAID EXPANSION, WE MUST ACT.
THAT IS VIRGINIA MONEY COMING
( APPLAUSE )
BACK TO VIRGINIA, AND IT WILL
THAT IS VIRGINIA MONEY COMING
CREATE 30,000 NEW JOBS.
BACK TO VIRGINIA, AND IT WILL
>> Reporter: CUCCINELLI REFUTED
CREATE 30,000 NEW JOBS.
THAT CLAIM AT LAST WEEK'S FINAL
>> Reporter: CUCCINELLI REFUTED
CANDIDATE DEBATE.
THAT CLAIM AT LAST WEEK'S FINAL
>> HE PRETENDS TO GET $500
CANDIDATE DEBATE.
MILLION OUT OF THE MEDICAID
>> HE PRETENDS TO GET $500
EXPANSION, WHICH HE'S CALLED A
MILLION OUT OF THE MEDICAID
JOBS PROGRAM.
EXPANSION, WHICH HE'S CALLED A
FOLKS, IT'S WELFARE, IT'S NOT A
JOBS PROGRAM.
>> Reporter: THE McAULIFFE
CAMPAIGN, MEANWHILE, HAS CHARGED
REPUBLICAN CUCCINELLI IS OUTSIDE
THE MAINSTREAM OF VIRGINIA
VOTERS, ESPECIALLY WHEN IT COMES
TO WOMEN'S HEALTH ISSUES SUCHS A
ABORTION RIGHTS AND ACCESS TO
CONTRACEPTION.
>> LET ME BE CRYSTAL CLEAR, I
TRUST WOMEN TO MAKE THEIR OWN
DECISIONS ABOUT THEIR OWN
PERSONAL HEALTH CHOICES.
( APPLAUSE )
AS GOVERNOR, I WILL VETO ANY
LEGISLATION THAT WILL RESTRICT
BIRTH CONTROL.
( APPLAUSE )
>> Reporter: IT'S A MESSAGE THE
DEMOCRAT HAS UNDERSCORED ON
TELEVISION, WHERE HE HAS
OUTSPENT CUCCINELLI BY MORE THAN
$3 MILLION.
>> AND CUCCINELLI TRIED TO BAN
COMMON FORMS OF BIRTH CONTROL.
>> EVEN THE PILL.
>> KEN CUCCINELLI IS JUST WAY
TOO EXTREME.
>> WAY TOO EXTREME.
>> WAY TOO EXTREME FOR VIRGINIA.
>> Reporter: THE POLLS REFLECT A
WIDE GENDER GAP IN THE RACE WITH
McAULIFFE LEADING CUCCINELLI BY
DOUBLE DIGITS AMONG WOMEN, WHILE
MEN ARE MORE EVENLY SPLIT.
FOR HIS PART, CUCCINELLI SAYS
THE PROBLEMS WITH THE HEALTH
CARE LAW SHOULD BE A CHIEF
CONCERN FOR WOMEN.
>> ON OBAMACARE, IT IS WOMEN
THAT MAKE THREE-QUARTERS OF THE
HEALTH CARE DECISIONS IN THIS
COUNTRY AND THEY DON'T LIKE IT
WHEN THEY'RE THREATENED WITH THE
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT TAKING THEIR
DOCTOR AWAY, TAKING THEIR HEALTH
INSURANCE AWAY, TAKING THEIR
CHOICES AWAY AND DICTATING HOW
THOSE DECISIONS ARE GOING TO GET
MADE.
>> Reporter: THE DIVISIONS
BETWEEN THE CANDIDATES ARE
SHARED BY TIR SHEUPPORTERS.
>> I THINK MR. CUCCINELLI
HIMSELF HAS PAINTED HIMSELF AS
TOO CONSERVATIVE FOR VIRGINIA.
I MEAN THESE ARE DIRECTLY, YOU
KNOW THESE ARE HIS POSITIONS AND
YOU KNOW, THESE ARE HIS STATED
POSITIONS IF YOU WILL AND I
BELIEVE THE MAJORITY OF THE
COMMONWEALTH ARE JUST NOT IN
LINE WITH THOSE VIEWS
>> THEY'RE MAKING THESE CRISES
OUT OF SOCIAL ISSUES AND THAT'S
NOT GOING TO HELP THE
COMMONWEALTH.
WE NEED TO GET SERIOUS ABOUT
REAL PROBLEMS NOT MADE UP ISSUES
AND PROBLEMS AND THINGS LIKE
THAT.
>> Reporter: MARY WASHINGTON'S
STEPHEN FARNSWORTH NOTES
CUCCINELLI'S BID HAS BEEN
COMPLICATED BY THE PRESENCE IN
THE RACE OF LIBERTARIAN ROBERT
SARVIS.
ONE RECENT POLL SHOWED SARVIS
WITH 9% OF THE POTENTIAL VOTE.
FARNWORTH SAYS THAT'S DRIVEN
CUCCINELLI TO SHORE UP HIS
CONSERVATIVE BASE HAMPERING HIS
OUTREACH TO THE REST OF
VIRGINIA'S FAST-CHANGING
ELECTORATE.
>> YOU'RE LOOKING AT A PURPLE
STATE.
AND IF YOU ARE TOO CONSERVATIVE
A REPUBLICAN, YOU CAN PAY A
PRICE FOR THAT.
AND THERE'S A BELIEF AMONG SOME
REPUBLICANS, EVEN PEOPLE A
COUPLE OF YEARS AGO WE WOULD
HAVE CALLED CONSERVATIVE
REPUBLICANS, THAT CUCCINELLI IS
TOO CONSERVATIVE.
>> Reporter: WITH BOTH SIDES
EAGER TO WIN THIS BATTLEGROUND
STATE, MORE BIG NAMES ARE HEADED
TO THE OLD DOMINION IN THE
CAMPAIGN'S CLOSING DAYS.
PRESIDENT OBAMA AND VICE
PRESIDENT BIDEN ARE SCHEDULED TO
CAMPAIGN FOR McAULIFFE.
WHILE WISCONSIN GOVERNOR SCOTT
WALKER, FLORIDA SENATOR MARCO
RUBIO AND FORMER TEXAS
CONGRESSMAN RON PAUL WILL STUMP
FOR CUCCINELLI.
VOLUNTEERS WITH BOTH CAMPAIGNS
ARE DOING THEIR PART TO HELP GET
OUT THE VOTE NEXT TUESDAY, WHEN
VIRGINIA VOTERS WILL DECIDE
WHICH DIRECTION TO TAKE THEIR
STATE FOR THE NEXT FOUR YEARS.
>> Woodruff: AND TO THE ANALYSIS
OF SHIELDS AND BROOKS.
THAT'S SYNDICATED COLUMNIST MARK
SHIELDS AND "NEW YORK TIMES"
COLUMNIST DAVID BROOKS.
WELCOME TO THE PROGRAM.
SO, MARK, WE'VE HEARD ABOUT THE
VIRGINIA RACE, BIG NAMES COMING
IN FOR BOTH CANDIDATES.
WHAT ARE THE LESSONS WE SHOULD
TAKE AWAY AFTER HEARING THIS
REPORT FROM KWAME AND OUR
PRODUCERS?
>> THE FIRST THING I'D SAY AFTER
LISTENING TO KWAME'S REPORT IS
CHARLES DARWIN COMES TO MIND.
THE IMPROVEMENT OF THE SPECIES.
VIRGINIA'S GOVERNORS HAVE
INCLUDED PATRICK HENRY, THOMAS
JEFFERSON, JAMES MONROE AND IT'S
EITHER GOING TO BE TERRY
McAULIFFE OR KEN KAOUFP
NELLIE.
KAOUFP NELLIE.
NOW VIRGINIA IS A FASCINATING
STATE.
>> Woodruff: WHAT DO YOU MEAN
BY THAT?
>> WHEN WE HAD A SMALL POOL TO
DRAW ON-- WHITE PROTESTANT MALES
WHO HAVE PROPERTY-- WE SEEM TO
HAVE BEEN LUCKY IN OUR DRAFT
CHOICES IN THE 19th CENTURY.
IN THE 21st CENSURE WRITE A
LARGER POOL AND TERRY
McAULIFFE IS A VERY GOOD PARTY
CHAIRMAN, LET ME TELL YOU.
HE WAS AN EXCELLENT PARTY
CHAIRMAN.
BUT THE KEY ABOUT VIRGINIA IS
THIS.
IS IT BLUE OR RED?
IN THE LNAL
ELECTIONS, JUDY, VIRGINIA IS THE
ONLY STATE THAT HAS VOTED
EXACTLY THE WAY THE NATION DID.
IT VOTED 53% TO 46% FOR BARACK
OBAMA IN '08, 51% TO 47% TO HIM
IN '12.
13 OUT OF THE LAST 14 PRIOR TO
THAT IT VOTED REPUBLICAN.
THE ONLY TIME THEY VOTED
DEMOCRATIC WAS FOR LYNDON
JOHNSON IN 1964 WHENEVER PLACE
-- SO IT'S BEEN -- IT'S A STATE
THAT HAD TWO REPUBLICAN
SENATORS, GEORGE ALLEN AND JOHN
WARNER.
NOW HAS TWO DEMOCRATIC SENATORS,
MARK WORNER AND TIM KAINE.
IT'S BECOME, I THINK, A BLUER
STATE AND KEN CUCCINNELLI I
DON'T THINK IS THE KIND OF
REPUBLICAN WHO -- AND KWAME'S
POINT IS RIGHT.
ROBERT SARVIS, THE LIBERTARIAN,
COMPLICATED HIS LIFE AND IF, IN
FACT, WH HAPATPENS AND HE HAS TO
HOPE THAT CUCCHINELLI FOLKS THAT
THE THIRD PARTY DOES BETTER IN
THE POLLS THAN ELECTION DAY WHEN
PEOPLE SAY WELL, I HAVE TO MAKE
A CHOICE BETWEEN THESE TWO
LEADING CANDIDATE HE IS HAS TO
HOPE THAT SARVIS VOTERS SAY
CUCCHINELLI IS THE BEST CHANCE.
>> IF MARK'S GOING WITH DARWIN
I'M GOING WITH THE SUFFRAGETTE
MOVEMENTS.
WOMEN CAN VOTE NOW, IT'S BEEN
100 YEARS OR SO.
WOMEN HAVE THE VOTE AND THE
REPUBLICAN PARTY DOESN'T SEEM TO
BE AWARE OF THAT.
>> Woodruff: ACTUALLY, NOT
QUITE A HUNDRED YEARS BUT WHO'S
COUNTING.
>> ROUGHLY 100 YEARS, THANK YOU
FOR SAVING ME FROM A THOUSAND
LETTERS FROM ANGRY SUFFRAGETTES
ALL OVER THE COUNTRY.
>> THE TRUTH IT IS' 93.
>> OKAY, THAT'S ROUGH.
>> Woodruff: THANK YOU, WE'VE
GOT THAT STRAIGHT.
>> THE FACT IS HE'S DOING
TERRIBLY AMONG WOMEN AND THE
REPUBLICAN PARTY HAS BECOME MORE
AND MORE A WHITE MALE PARTY AND
THIS IS ANOTHER SIGN OF THAT.
SEAN TREND DID A VERY GOOD
ANALYSIS WHEREOF THE VOTE HAVE
MOVED.
HIS ARGUMENT IS NOT SO MUCH
BECAUSE THE GOVERNMENT SHUT
DOWN.
IT'S NOT EVEN CHANGING
DEMOGRAPHICS.
REPUBLICANS HE DOAVNE QUITE WELL
IN GOVERNORS RACES, BUT JUST
GETTING CLOBBERED ON GENDER
ISSUES, CONTRACEPTION ISSUES AND
PARTICULARLY ON TRY DENSY.
STRIDENTSY.
HE'S NOT ONLY TAKING THESE
POSITIONS WHICH OTHERS HAVE WON
ON, HE'S CAMPAIGNED IN A MORE
STRIDENT MANNER AND IT'S DONE
HIM A DISSERVICE AND OPENED UP
THIS GENDER GAP.
>> STEPHEN FARNSWORTH WHO WAS
INTERVIEWED IN KWAME'S PIECE
MADE THE POINT AND HE'S RIGHT.
IT'S BEEN A NEGATIVE CAMPAIGN.
IF THERE'S A LESSON TO TAKE -- I
MEAN, IT'S NOT.
>> Woodruff: YOU HEARD THE
VOTERS SAYING IT.
>> NOT THIS IS WHAT WE CAN DO
TOGETHER TO MAKE A BETTER STATE
TO BRING A MORE JUST AND HUMANE
SOCIETY OR FULLER EMPLOYMENT OR
WHATEVER.
IT'S BEEN, LOOK, YOU KNOW, I MAY
BE NO DAY AT THE BEACH BUT THE
OTHER GUY, MY OPPONENT, IS A
CHRONIC PAIN IN THE NECK AND
LOWER BACK REGION AND EVERYTHING
ELSE?
AND THAT'S WHAT IT'S BEEN?
AND IT'S HARDLY BEEN ELEVATING
OR EDIFYING CAMPAIGN.
>> Woodruff: ISN'T THAT THE
WAY MOST CAMPAIGNS ARE THESE
DAYS?
BUT WE WON'T START GRADING THEM
ON A SCALE.
>> HE SAID PATRICK HENRY.
HE'S SETTING THE BAR KIND OF
HIGH.
>> Woodruff: SPYING.
A SPATE OF REPORTS AND MORE
EVIDENCE THAT THE U.S. IS DOING
SURVEILLANCE ON OUR -- NOT JUST
ON OUR ENEMIES BUT ON FRIENDS
AND ALLIES, THE GERMAN
CHANCELLOR AND TODAY THE
SECRETARY OF STATE JOHN KERRY
WAS QUOTED AS SAYING THAT SOME
OF THESE ACTIONS MAY HAVE
REACHED TOO FAR.
>> A KPWHRAOEUPBDINGLY GOOD
GRASP OF THE.
IT SPREAD TO TECH FIRMS.
IT SPREAD TO THE TECH FIRMS THEY
REALIZED THIS IS REALLY A
BUSINESS PROBLEM FOR THEM IF WE
LOOK AT THEM AN ADJUNCT TO THE
N.S.A.
I'M SUPPORTING THE MEGADATA
ANALYSIS WE DO OF POTENTIAL
TERRORIST BUS TO DO IT TO YOUR
FRIENDS IS A COMPLETE
DESTRUCTION OF TRUST WE HAD AN
OP-ED CALLING ON TWO THINGS, THE
PRESIDENT SHOULD APOLOGIZE,
THAT'S CLEARLY RIGHT.
BLANKET APOLOGY TO ANGELA MERKEL
AND WE SHOULD HAVE A TREATY WE
WON'T DO IT TO OTHER LEADERS WHO
ARE CLOSE FRIENDS AND ALLIES.
>> THE ADMINISTRATION IS
SOUNDING LIKE THEY'RE GOING TO
PULL BACK BUT THEY'RE SAYING
THEY NEED TO DO A BIG SWEEP JUST
IN CASE THERE'S SOMETHING OUT
THERE.
>> THAT'S WHAT SECRETARY KERRY--
WHO WAS THE MOST CREDIBLE FIGURE
WHO WAS NOT IN ANY WAY TAINTED--
TO MAKE THIS STATEMENT.
I MEAN HE ACKNOWLEDGED -- DAVID
MAKES A GOOD POINT.
HE ACKNOWLEDGED WHAT EVERYBODY
KNOWS AND THAT IS THAT IT'S GONE
TOO FAR.
AND THE FACT IS, JUDY, IT'S ONE
THING TO SPY ON GERMANY.
THEY'VE BEEN SPYING APPARENTLY
ON MRS. MERKEL SINCE 2002 OR
FRANCE OR ITALY OR SPAIN OR
ASIAN LEAGUE COMPANIES BUT YOU
DON'T MESS WITH APPLE OR GOOGLE
AND THEY'RE UPSET THEY'VE PUT
THE DEFENSE IN A -- THE
ADMINISTRATION IN A DEFENSIVE
POSITION.
THEY'VE LOST -- ON THIS ONE
THEY'VE LOST DIANNE FEINSTEIN,
THE CHAIRMAN OF THE SENATE
INTELLIGENCE COMMITTEE WHO'S
BEEN A STAUNCH DEFENDER.
THE ARGUE THAT SECRETARY KERRY
MADE, WE'VE STOPPED AIRLINERS
FROM BEING SHOT DOWN, WE'VE
STOPPED ASSASSINATIONS BY BEING
BLOWN UP AND YOU CAN'T PROVE
THAT WITHOUT COMPROMISING YOUR
OWN SOURCES.
>> BUT LET'S DISTINGUISH BETWEEN
THE BIG SWEEPS DONE IN THE
MIDDLE EAST OR PAKISTAN AND IN
BERLIN.
I THINK IT'S A COST BENEFIT
ANALYSIS, IT'S A MATTER OF
PRUDENCE.
WE HAVE A NATIONAL SECURITY
APPARATUS WHICH NOW NUMBERS
HUNDREDS OF THOUSANDS OF PEOPLE
WITH TOP SECRET CLEARANCE WHO DO
WHAT THEY CAN.
THEY DO WHOEVER THEY CAN AND
THERE'S NOT MUCH OF A SENSE OF
BALANCE AND PRUDENCE IN THE
COSTS TO THAT MENTALITY ARE VERY
HIGH AND THE TRANSATLANTIC
RELATIONSHIP THAT IS AT A LOW PY
AFTER THE IRAQ WAR DEBATE AND
ASIAN NATIONS WHICH WERE UPSET,
DEEP COST TOO AMERICAN ALLIANCE.
>> IT WASN'T AN IDLE CONCERN
WHEN THEY SAID THE PRESIDENT
SHOULDN'T KEEP HIS BLACKBERRY.
>> Woodruff: EARLY ON.
>> AND HE DOESN'T KNOW -- I'M
NOT SURE HE KNOWS WHO IS
LISTENING IN ON THAT.
>> Woodruff: WELL, ON DAYS
WHEN THE WHITE HOUSE ISN'T
WORRYING ABOUT THE SPYING ISSUE
THEY ARE THINKING ABOUT WHAT'S
GOING WON THE ROLLOUT MARK OF
THE HTH CARE LAW AND THE WEB
SITE AND I KNOW WE TALKED ABOUT
THIS LAST WEEK BUT THIS WEEK YOU
HAVE TO SECRETARY OF HEALTH AND
HUMAN SERVICES KATHLEEN SEBELIUS
ON THE HILL.
THE WOMAN WHO'S IN CHARGE OF THE
MEDICARE/MEDICAID AGENCIES.
THEY'RE ACCEPTING RESPONSIBILITY
BUT THE PROBLEMS JUST -- JUST
DOESN'T STEAM GO AWAY.
NOT ONLY NOT GO AWAY IT SEEMS TO
GET BIGGER.
>> YOU CAN SAY THIS WEEK THAT
JOHN KERRY AND -- TO SOME DEGREE
BUT KATHLEEN SEBELIUS, SECRETARY
OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES,
TOOK ONE FOR THE TEAM.
IN FULL DISCLOSURE, I MANAGE
KATHLEEN SEBELIUS' FATHER
CAMPAIGN, WINNINGAMP CAIGN FOR
GOVERNOR OF OHIO 43 YEARS AGO
AND I'VE KNOWN HER SO I DON'T
PRETEND TO -- TOTAL OBJECTIVITY.
BUT, I MEAN, IT WAS REFRESHING
TO HEAR SOMEBODY STAND UP AND
SAY "I'M ACCOUNTABLE, I'M
RESPONSIBLE."
I MEAN, THAT'S A SONG YOU DON'T
HEAR VERY OFTEN IN WASHINGTON
"CALL ME RESPONSIBLE."
BUT YOU'RE RIGHT, THE PROBLEMS
CONTINUE.
THEY'RE COMPOUNDED AND -- BY THE
FACT THAN THE PRESIDENT'S
STATEMENT THAT NOBODY WOULD HAVE
TO GIVE UP HIS OR HER EXISTING
INSURANCE, THAT HAS BEEN TOTALLY
CONTRADICTED.
HE WAS WRONG.
HE WAS MISLEADING.
AND THAT'S A TIME WHEN YOU NEED
THE PRESIDENT TO BE THE MOST
CREDIBLE MESSENGER FOR MAKING
THE CASE FOR PEOPLE TO ENROLL TO
COMPROMISE HIS REPUTATION FOR
CANDOR AND HONEST CITY REALLY
EVEN FURTHER SELF-INFLICTED
DAMAGE.
>> Woodruff: HOW DEEP A HOLE
REASON R THEY IN IN THIS IN?
>> WELL, THE WEB SITE WAS A
MESSUP.
THE PEOPLE LOSING THEIR
CANCELLATION IS THE LAW.
THE GOVERNMENT REGULATORS ARE
SAYING NOT GOOD ENOUGH.
SOME WILL SUFFER, SOME WILL
BENEFIT.
BUT THESE THE FOOTHILLS TO WHAT
WILL BE A HOLE SET OF BIGGER
PROBLEMSES.
BECAUSE OF THE PROBLEMS WITH THE
ENROLL.
THAT INCREASES THE LIKELIHOOD
WE'LL HAVE THE DEATH SPIRAL
WHERE ONLY SICK PEOPLE SIGN UP,
THE HEALTHY DON'T SIGN UP AND
YOU CAN'T RUN A SYSTEM LIKE
THAT.
THEN THERE ARE FURTHER PROBLEMS,
COMPLEXITIES DOWN THE ROAD OF
HOW THE SUBSIDY MECHANISM WORKS.
THAT'S VERY COMPLICATED
MECHANISM.
BASICALLY YOU'RE REORGANIZING
70% OF THE U.S. ECONOMY AND
YOU'RE HAND AGO --
>> 17%.
AND HANDING IT TO PEOPLE WHO
CAN'T RUN A WEB SITE SO THERE'S
BOUND TO BE UNINTENDED
CONSEQUENCES.
>> Woodruff: THESE EARLY FOLKS
ARE SIGNING UP FOR MEDICAID
WHICH DOESN'T PUT MONEY INTO THE
HEALTH CARE.
>> IT'S NOT WHAT THE INSURANCE
COMPANIES WERE LOOKING FOR WHEN
THEY WANTED THE YOG,UN HEALTHY
PEOPLE TO SIGN UP.
DEATH SPIRAL I THINK DAVID IS A
BRIDGE TOO FAR.
I THINK IT'S A PROBLEM.
THEY BETTER HAVE ALL OF THESE
PROBLEMS IRONED OUT BY THE END
OF NOVEMBER AS FAR AS THE WEB
SITE IS CONCERNED OR ELSE THE
HOLE DOES GET --
>> I'M SAYING THAT AS A SHORT
TERM FOR THE ADVERSE SELECTION
PROBLEM WHERE ONLY SICK PEOPLE
SIGN UP.
>> Woodruff: YOU KNOW, A
COUPLE WEEKS AGO WE WERE TALKING
ABOUT THE PROBLEMS REPUBLICANS
WERE HAVING COMING OFF OF THE
GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWN AND HOW THEY
WERE HAVING TO DO ALL THIS CHEST
BEATING WORRYING ABOUT WHERE
THEY WERE HEADED NOW IT'S THE
ADMINISTRATION WORRIED, YOU'VE
GOT DEMOCRATS WORRIED ABOUT WHAT
THE PRESIDENT -- WHAT'S GOING TO
HAPPEN TO THE HEALTH CARE LAW.
A NEW POLL CAME OUT, NBC, THE
"WALL STREET JOURNAL" JUST
YESTERDAY LOWEST RATINGS EVER
NOT JUST FOR REPUBLICANS BUT THE
PRESIDENT.
I MEAN AND THEN THE VIEW, DAVID
AND MARK, OF WASHINGTON, IS AS
LOW AS IT'S EVER BEEN.
IS THIS SOMETHING -- I MEAN, IF
YOU WORK IN WASHINGTON DO YOU
JUST DESPAIR AT THIS POINT?
>> I THINK THERE'S A DESPAIR IN
THE COUNTRY, JUDY, ABOUT
DEMOCRACY AND ABOUT OUR ABILITY
TO COMPROMISE.
I MEAN, THAT'S WHAT COMES
THROUGH IN THAT "WALL STREET
JOURNAL" NBC POLL, PETER HART
WHO CONDUCTED IT WITH BILL
McINTIRE, PEOPLE ARE JUST
SAYING WHAT IS WRONG WITH YOU,
WHY CAN'T YOU WORK TOGETHER?
I MEAN, YOU'RE RIGHT THE
REPUBLICANS PAID DEARLY FOR THE
GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNBUT  THE
DEMOCRATS -- IT'S LIKE A SEESAW
WHERE THEY'RE BOTH DOWN.
I MEAN, THE DEMOCRATS AREN'T UP
BECAUSE THE REPUBLICANS ARE
DOWN, THE DEMOCRATS ARE DOWN AND
EVERY TIME THERE'S AN EROSION,
FURTHER EROSION OF CONFIDENCE IN
WASHINGTON, IN THE PUBLIC
SECTOR, THE WORSE IT IS FOR
DEMOCRATS.
>> Woodruff: JUST A FEW
SECONDS, DAVID.
THIS IS -- I MEAN, THIS IS
SOMETHING THAT COULD LAST.
>> YEAH, ALTHOUGH LENIN, MY
GREAT HERO-- NO--
>> JOHN LENNON?
>> NO, VLADIMIR.
HE SAID THE WORSE THE BETTER.
SO IF WE GET A COMPLETELY
DYSFUNCTIONAL SYSTEM, WE'VE BEEN
ON THIS SLOPE FOR A LONG TIME,
MAYBE THERE WILL BE SOME REFORM.
IT'S JUST UP TO PEOPLE DO THE
REFORM.
>> Woodruff: THANK YOU BOTH,
ON THAT NOTE WE SAY GOOD NIGHT
TO BOTH OF YOU.
MARK SHIELDS, DADVI BROOKS,
THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY:
THE LEADER OF THE PAKISTANI
TALIBAN WAS REPORTEDLY KILLED BY
A U.S. DRONE STRIKE.
HE'D BEEN ON THE F.B.I.'S LIST
OF MOST WANTED TERRORISTS AND A
GUNMAN OPENED FIRE AT LOS
ANGELES INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT,
KILLING A FEDERAL SECURITY
WORKER AND WOUNDED AT LEAST TWO
OTHER PEOPLE.
HE WAS LATER SHOT ANCAPTD URED.
ON THE "NEWSHOUR" ONLINE RIGHT
NOW, IMMUNIZING YOURSELF FROM
FINANCIAL STRESS AS YOU AGE.
OUR ECONOMICS CORRESPONDENT PAUL
SOLMAN ROUNDS UP SOME OF THE
BEST ADVICE ON NOT OUTLIVING
YOUR SAVINGS.
FIND THAT ON MAKING SENSE.
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR
WEBSITE newshour.pbs.org.
AND A REMINDER ABOUT
SOME UPCOMING PROGRAMS FROM
OUR PBS COLLEAGUES.
GWEN IFILL IS PREPARING FOR
"WASHINGTON WEEK," WHICH AIRS
LATER THIS EVENING.
HERE'S A PREVIEW:
>> Ifill: WE'LL TACKLE THE
HEALTH CARE DEBACLE, THE FRANTIC
EFFORT TO FIX IT AND U.S. SPY
CRAFT AT HOME AND ABROAD.
TONIGHT ON "WASHINGTON WEEK."
JUDY?
>> Woodruff: TOMORROW'S EDITION
OF "PBS NEWSHOUR" WEEKEND LOOKS
AT A THE SURPRISING VARIATION IN
THE COST AND AT TIMES HIGH PRICE
OF GENERIC DRUGS.
FOR CORRESPONDENT MEGAN
THOMPSON, THE STORY STARTED
CLOSE TO HOME, WHEN HER MOTHER
STARTED SHOPPING FOR AN
AFFORDABLE ALTERNATIVE TO A
BRAND NAME BREAST CANCER
MEDICATION.
HERE'S ANXCER EPT FROM HER
REPORT.
>> ONE STORE QUOTED A PRICE
FORTY TIMES MORE THAN THE OTHER.
HOW COULD THAT BE?
ESPECIALLY WHEN GENERIC DRUGS
ARE COMMONLY THOUGHT TO BE SO
INEXPENSIVE.
>> I WAS SHOCKED.
I WAS CONFUSED.
I THOUGHT, "WHAT AM I MISSING?
YOU KNOW, THIS DOESN'T COMPUTE."
>> THOMPSON, WHO'D NEVER BEEN A
CONSUMER ACTIVIST, SAID SHE FELT
COMPELLED TO TRY TO FIGURE THIS
OUT.
>> I STARTED JUST ON MY OWN TO
PHONE SOME OTHER PHARMACIES IN
THE TWIN CITIES HERE.
>> Reporter: LAST JUNE, SHE MADE
ANOTHER ROUND OF CALLS LIKE SHE
DID MORE THAN A YEAR PRIOR.
AND WHAT SHE FOUND WAS THAT
NOTHING HAD CHANGED: WILDLY
VARYING PRICES FOR HER GENERIC
BREAST CANCER DRUG.
>> HI, WOULD YOU BE ABLE TO
CHECK THE PRICE OF A DRUG FOR
ME?
A 30-DAY SUPPLY OF LETROZOLE?
>> $11.04.
>> IT'S $29.88.
>> $45.99.
>> $364.99
>> OOH, I DIDN'T REALIZE IT WAS
THAT MUCH.
IT'S $435.
>> $455.
>> IT DIDN'T SEEM FAIR.
AND IT SEEMED TO ME ESPECIALLY
EGREGIOUS WHEN IT WAS A LIFE-
SAVING-- WHEN IT... WHEN IT
INVOLVED A LIFE-SAVING CANCER
DRUG.
IT JUST UPSET ME.
>> Woodruff: PBS NEWSHOUR
WEEKEND WITH HARI SREENIVASAN
AIRS SATURDAY AND SUNDAY  ON
MOST "PBS STATIONS."
AND WE'LL BE BACK, RIGHT HERE,
ON MONDAY.
WE PROFILE ONE FAMILY IN NEW
YORK TRYING TO MAKE IT ON
MINIMUM WAGE.
THAT'S THE "NEWSHOUR" FOR
TONIGHT.
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
HAVE A NICE WEEKEND.
THANK YOU AND GOOD NIGHT.